Introduction
~
Welcome to Math-venture!
Your goal is to move from room to room, solve the math problems and collect the items to win.
To collect an item, solve the problem in each room.
You must collect all the items to complete the level.
Good luck!|
~
~
Warehouse
~
Rows upon rows of crates line this warehouse. After a cursory inspection, you
determine that there are 35 rows of crates. Each row contains 15 crates. At
first it seem like the crates are countless, but then you start to wonder how
many crates exactly there are in this dusty old warehouse...|
35 * 15
Screw driver
A normal philip's head screw driver.
Manufacturing
~
This room looks like an assembly line, but at the moment the machinery is
silent. As you start making your way through the room you start to fill your
pockets with nails that you find laying about. Once you're satisfied that you've
collected them all, you determine that you have 27 in one pocket and 14 in the
other. Now, if you only had a hammer...|
27 + 14
Nails
Plain steel nails, each about 1 inch long.
Offices
~
Cubicles. So many cubicles. This must be where the busy-work of the office
routine is completed. Day in and day out, the drones push their pencils and
partake in the tedium of their work. Looking at the schedules you determine that
the workers put in a total of 3000 hours over the last 5 days and you wonder how
many hours that is per day...|
3000 / 5
Flashlight
A standard flashlight.
Shipping
~
This room seems to be where the products are shipped out. Judging by the marks
on the floor, it looks like there were 60 containers to be shipped, but 32 are
missing. But it's so dark in here, you can't find a way out except back into the
complex. If you find a flashlight you might reveal new exits.|
60 - 32
Hammer
This is a typical hammer, useful for driving nails, removing nails, and breaking things.
Escape
hidden
You made it! After collecting all the items, you were able to find the exit and
break your way out. You've reached freedom!|
~
~
